# Tritosian

**Species Name**: Tritosian (tri toe she an)

**Bio Chemistry**: Carbon

**Life Form Type**: Humanoid

**Life Span**: Unknown

**Social Organization**: Eglatarian

**Genders**: Binary male and female

**Diet**: Omnivore

**Religion Type**: Other, Variable

**Government Type**: Parlimentary Imperial

**Home World**: Tri Tos (Tri toe s)

**Colonies**: 35

**History**:

After the reforms imposed by the 2nd **Divine Leader** Delkeft, the Tritosian people became a well organized as sofisticated people establishing several colonies on oher worlds. The Galarians still bitter about being expelled from the Tritosian home world where they were created launched an invasion to return "their property" back to their place, but they severly under estimated their former slaves capabilities and were soundly beaten a second time. Only this time the Galarians also lost two star systems in the aftermath of the war, this war is known as the 2nd Galarian War the first being their war for freedom. The Tritosians found several species not previously known to them to inhabit the worlds in these star systems, most were slaves acquired from other places but two were indiginous to the planets. With their long memories still vivid in their minds they freed the imported slaves from their bondage and offered to take them home or give them a safe place for them to live out their lives as they see fit. One of the indiginous species asked to join their fedgling empire the other just wanted to be left alone. Bound by honor the Tritosians honored the wishes of every species involved, taking the ones that wished to return to their home worlds back and giving safe haven to those that wished to stay. By agreement with the sole independent star systems the Tritosians let them be but made sure that no invasion would ever threaten their way of life, an agreement that survive to this day. The remaining star system was absorbed into the the Tritosain Empire.

For ten generations since the Galarians had tried to return them to slaver Tritosians knew only peace and prosperity but the Galarians also had a long memory and stil desired to return their property to there place. Thus began a century of war called the 3rd Galarian war which nearly saw a complete reversal of all the Tritosians had gained, but in the end the Tritosians triumphed and gained ground aborbing six(6) new star systems into their empire. And it was about this this time that the legend of **Amkistad** began. In the ancient tongue amkistad means secret place and it is rumored to hold a secret force waiting to be called upon to defend the Tritosian Empire in its darkest hour. 

It was rumored that the **Hero of the Empire** a young officer by the name of Alias Alcon Gleecome III, of the Tritosian Defense Force was ordered by his superior, Admiral Alcon Gleecome, Alias's father, to find **Amkistad** during the 5th and final Galarian War. The officer not wanting to be chasing a fairy tale questioned his orders. But the Admiral would not have and insisted and when the young officer tried to object found himself facing the very real posibility of a summary execution by his own father no less. By this time weapon technology had reached a point that an energy based side arm pointed at ones head was a real threat to one's one life as a Tritosian or otherwise. As the rumor puts it the Admiral having had enough of his son's insubordination drew his side arm capable of vaporising him in an instant and pointed it at his son's head and said, "By every god of war in the known universe you will shut your ##!&$#$! mouth and carry out your orders!" It is not known if the young Alias gave a response. But the offical TDF record records that a sub-commander by name of Alias Alcon Gleecome III led a fleet of enormous size from an unknown origin into the Battle of Kestialanis relieving the beleaguered 12th Fleet and preventing the Galarians from overrunning the entire TDF and conquoring the Empire.

Though to this day Captain Gleecome a.k.a. the **Hero of the Empire** refuses to say where the fleet he led came from, it is widely accepted that he in his desperation to obey his orders to the very best of his abilities, that he actually found **Amkistad** and opened the "gates" that are rumored to enclose the place. But regardlees of where the fleet actually came from his actions turned the tide of the war and snatched victory from the jaws of defeat and expanded the Empire to its present day size.

**Physical Characteristics**:

Appearance-wise there is no dicernable difference between a human and a Tritosian and they are often mistaken as humans by many races. But there are a few subtle differences that a trained eye can catch. For instance the complete lack of any facial hair, although they can have procedures done to give the appearance of facial hair these procedures are temporary as their regenerative abilites eventually expel the foriegn matter from their face. They are fearless in the face of danger simple because they know that they can't be seriously hurt in most situations. So if you see what looks to be a young to middle aged human standing up to a being that could squash him like a grape he or she is probably a Tritosian, if not, then you may want to say a prayer for the dumb bastard.

Internally, there are some very noticable differences like the presence of a 2nd brain encased in a hard shell in the plural cavity. This 2nd brain is the source of their regenerative and other physical characteristics that are somewhat unique. If this 2nd brain is somehow damaged or destroyed and if they are not killed by this event a Tritosian will not be able to regenerate at their incredible remarkable rate that they do. Thew wil lose all regenerative ability and their high tolerance to pain is evaporated to a zero tolerance of pain. See the Special an Unique Abilitise description.

**Biology**: 

Like many humanoid species Tritosians require a mating pair in order to reproduce, but unlike any other species the female may only become pregnant if they chose to become pregnant. There is no know way to forcibly impregnate a Tritosian female without her consent, not even by rape.

**Origin**:

The Tritosian origin is one that is not at all shrouded in mystery or myth but one of scientific and historical fact. They were a gentically engineered species designed to be the perfect slave for their "once hated masters, the Galarians. Every biological Tritosian knows the story of the creation of their species and how they were cruelly treated by their masters and why they hate the Galarians to this day. Some million and a half years ago the first Tritosians emerged from their **Creator's** incubation pods, the exact number is lost to antiquity but it is believed to be in the tens of thousands. Then began the centuries of enslavement known as the **Tribulation** and lasted until the **Liberator** led them in a revolt against their "once hated masters" and they expelled their former masters from Tri Tos.

Then began the **Ordeal** period in their history where they fought amongst themselves for dominance until **Zarcon the Honorable One** brought them the **Honor Traditions** which is encoded into Tritosian Law to this day. Zarcon had fashion seven (7) swords which had he unique property of being able to permanently injure and kill a Triosian with minimal effort. A feat that was difficult otherwise, and with those seven swords was the **Great Book of Traditions** within its pages were written the **Honor Traditions** which explained in detail what honor was and how it was to be preserved. The book also described how to fashion such a sword that would be able to permanently injure or even kill a Tritosian out right. Up until this time the only reliable way to to kill a Tritosian was by cutting his head off or throwing him into a pool of molten rock or metal. 

The **Great Book of Traditions** also described how to choose a worthy leader who would be as a **Divine Leader** and lead their people to prosperity. So the people of Tri Tos acepted these gifts and began to adhear to the **Great Book** and selected they're first **Divine Leader** called Galhast. Galhast then set about organizing the people into Noble Houses there were 231 houses in all. But the Houses warred with each other and many of he great Noble Houses were destroyed in the process and even Galhast him self fell victim to these wars. His successor, Delkeft, sought to put an end to the wars and did something so radical that it changed forever the way disputes of honor would be settled. He ordered all of the remaining Noble Houses to select from among them a single champion and that champion shall be the only one to keep and wield a Zarconian sword. Thus each house would own only one such sword and all others would be destroyed, in this process the original swords of Zarcon were lost and presumed destroyed but a few have turned up over the eons three in all an rest within the **Divine Hall** of the **Divine Leader**. 

But Delkeft did not stop there each champion known as the **Keeper of the Sword** would be required to not only memorize the **Honor Traditions** but the entire line of **Keepers** for their Noble House. They and only they could issue an honor challenge. They and only they could answer an honor challenge. All who had an issue of honor must seek out the **Keeper of the Sword** for their Noble House and bring the matter before him or her. Using the **Honor Traditons** as their guide the keeper would then seek out the keeper of the Noble House involved and attempt to settle the matter in a peaceful manner. But if no peaceful resolution could be found then a formal honor challenge would be issued and a trial by sword would settle the matter. 

To ensure that the Honor Traditions were kept safe and not further molested by successive **Divine Leader** Dekeft decreed that a **College of Keepers** to be formed with each **Keeper of the Sword** from the Noble Houses as members. They and only they will guard the **Great Book of Traditions**. They and only they will be the sole interpretors of the **Honor Traditions**. They and only they shall make any changes to the **Honor Traditions**. Thus began the Tritosian way.

**Culture**:

To a Tritosian honor is everything and without honor you are nothing, other species have some sort of code of honor but Tritosians are the only one to actually have their code of honor enshired into law. It is actually a crime to do anything dishonorable if you are a Tritosian and it could mean imprisonment or even death. Some basic principles of their code of honor which the call the **Honor Traditions** or sometimes just the **Traditions** include:

- The principle of Truth: The Truth above all else, without the truth there can be no honor. This does not mean that a Tritosian can not be deceptive or sometimes outright lie. But it does mean that in evey situation which the truth is require and or expected one must always tell truth even if that truth may lead to embarrassment or hurt others. Tritosian believe in this so much that even a person of high status is found to have lied is subject to the same consequences as a person of the lowest status in society. For example, in a Tritosian court of law it is not only expected to tell the truth is it demanded and a judge has the power to summarily execute any testifying witness who is found to have lied. There is no other punishment for perjury in Tritosian Law an it does not matter what your status is or what the matter is that has come before the court. If you lie, you die and that is it. 

In a famous case about a stolen statue a wealthy merchant stole a statue from Governor of a District on the Tritosian Home World. The merchant admited that he stole the statue but only because the Governor owed him money, he had extended credit to the Governor so that he could renovate the administration building. The Governor lied in his testimoney saying that he had paid the merchant in fully and that he did not owe any more money. But the official records of the Governor and other witness testimoney proved that the Govenor was lying and deliberately so. If it was an honest mistake and the Governor had only thought he had paid the merchant the judge would have let that matter slide and dispensed jutice differently. But since the Governor was deliberately being deceptive the judge ordered the arrest and summary execution of the Governor. The merchant who had stolen the statue was ordered to return the statue because he had not taken it in a legal manner. The ammount that was owed to the merchant was forefit in lieu of jail time for the offence of stealing and the merchant was released from custody.

- The principle of Equality: Tritosian believe in absolute equality of all in all aspects of society and law. Which means that from the **Divine Leader** to the poorest of citizens are equal in everything. The **Divine Leader** is not exempt from any law any more than the poorest of citizens so if he were to steal an piece of fruit he would suffer the same consequences as a poor man who was stealng the fruit because he was hungry. 

- The principle of Hospitality: This principle states that anyone with means to help an individual or group of individuals that is in need must make every effort to help said individuals in need. In the example above where the **Divine Leader** takes a piece of fruit and gives it to a poor man who was hungry and could not afford to pay for the fruit the **Divine Leader** would not be guilty of stealing. He would; however, be abliged to inform the merchant of his action and honor would dictate that he attempt pay for the fruit he gave to the poor man, but the merchant, also a person of means would be abliged by the principle of Hospitality to decline the payment.

**Special or Unique Abilities**:

- Regeneration: Tritosians as a result of thier creator's bioengineering have an incredible regenerative capability as such it is extremely diffcult to permanently injure or kill a Tritosian but not impossible. Certain materials are known to cause harm and death but they are rare and hard to obtain within the Empire itself for this reason. If injured a Tritosain's eye will literally turn red and in low light conditions will give off an eerie crimson red glow. This glowing lasts as long as it takes to regenerate the injury. For minor injuries this is just a few seconds and more serious injuries take upto a minute, but major injuries can last for hours or even days depending on the type of injury. The regenerative ability even allows them to re-grow a severed limb or re-attach said limb naturally, but re-attachment is quicker and easier than to re-grow one. It takes two weeks to re-grom a limb vs. three days to re-attach and have a usable limb; three days to re-grow a lost finger vs. 24 hours to have a usale digit after re-attachment. Other species can regenerate but in the known worlds of the Milky Way Galaxy the Tritosians are the only known species to have such a high level of regenerative ability

- Conscious control of their biofunctions: Every biological function of the Tritosian body can be consciously controled by the individual Tritosian. From birth this abilty is autonomous but by 5 years a Tritosian child has full conscious control of their biological functions including their regenerative ability. This control allows them to speed up the regeneration of injuries or slow their metabalism to a near stop and enter a state of natural stasis. Because of this conscious control they can harden their body to absorb upto five time the usual amount of damage before receiving any physical damage requiring their body to regenerate. And even then the body regenerates 1 point every second naturally this amount is tripled with active concentration to the healing process.

For example lets say a Tritosian is naturally able to absorb 18 points of damage before death occurs and he or she was expecting trouble from a couple of armed human thugs. One of the thugs has a .45 caliber pistol an each bullet does 16 points of damage and assuming that they thug is an expert shot and dose not miss he would have to shoot the Tritosian 6 times in order to even have a chance of doing any damage. But since the Tritosian is not likely to just stand there and let the thug blast away at him with such a primative weapon. Both of those human thugs are in for the beating of their lives if they don't have the sense to run.

- Longevity: There is no known upper limit to how old a Tritosian can get and there is no recorded instance where a Tritosian has expried from old age. The oldest known Tritosian is some 50k plus Earth Years old. Her exact age is unknown even to her as anniversaries of ones birth are not celebrated after a Tritosian comes of age and its importance is meaninless after a century. Even the **Hero of the Empire** is unconcerned with his chronological age but is known to be somewhere in the 20K range in Earth Years. It's not uncommon to encounter a Triosian that is over 1,000 Earth Years old. The only reason there isn't such a prolific number of bioogical Tritosians is their additude toward procreation. Tritosians mate for life but typically two children are all a couple will have but a couple with 3 to 4 children are not uncommon and a couple with 5 or more children are rare but they are known to exist.

- Resurection: The regenerative ability of Tritosians is such that even if a Tritosian is killed it does not neccesarily spell the end for them. However, it is not guaranteed that they will return from the dead. Certain conditions have to exist before a Tritosian will regenerate from death. The first and most important is that the 2nd brain is undamaged, if it is even brused it will die with the rest of the body. Second the Tritosian can not have been completely decapitated, partial decaptiation may sometimes be ok so long as there is enough spinal cord attached to the brain stem. Third and last the body can not be destroyed after death, if someone is lucky enough to have killed a Tritosian they best destroy the body in it's entirety less they risk having them come back from the dead and seek them out.

Tritosian burial customs for the recently deceased that are capable of regenerating from death are to place the body in a temporary tomb and allow the natural process to ensue. If a dead Tritosian is not able to regenerate from death or they show signs of decay while in the temporary tomb then the body is disposed of via cremation or more recently placed in an disintigration chamber. Tritosians do not bury their dead in the ground, but other species within the Empire do.

This ability to regenerate from death is a slow process and has been known to take a century or more, the typical resurection takes a minimum of a decade but resurections occuring within a couple of years are not unheard of. When a Tritosian first regains consciousness from resurection they are disorientated and have complete amnesia and unaware of who they are or what just happened. They only know that they have a splitting head ache an are hungry as all get out. If they are in a family tomb their regenerative progress would have been monitored and when it is getting close for them to wake up food is often placed nearby for them to eat. There would also be a remedy for the head ache in the drink left with the food. 

Once they have risen from their tomb the family will take care of their every need during the **Time of Remembrance**, this is the time where he/she is exposed to familiar surroundings and treated gently. But at some point a memory cascade will occur, this is an excruiatingly stressful and painful event for a Tritosian. It is one of the few things that will bring agony to a Tritosian and can sometime kill them for a final time. But this is extremely rare for this to happen. Once the memory cascade has happened they will remember everything that they knew in life including the circumstances of their death. This ability to regenerate from death diminishes with each successive death and is lost after 3 or 4 regenerations from death. When this occurs and a Tritosian dies or is not able to regenerate from death due to the conditions needed are not present the Tritosian is said to have finally died or died the final death.

- Eidetic Memory: It was once said by the Emperor of the Arcadian Empire when answering a question by a member of the press in regards to an agreement between the two Empires that was centuries old, "I am not up set with the Tritosian government for their calling upon this ancient agreement. Nor am I up set that we must honor the agreement despite the inconvienence of the timing. An agreement is an agreement and it will be honored, that is only right. I am up set because I don't understand ho I cold have forgotten that Tritosians don't forget a damned thing."

**Strengths and Weaknesses**:

- High Intelligence: Tritosians have a very high intelligences having a minimum score of 7 and needing only a single six sided die to asertain their intelligence score. Roll the die and add six to the result and that is their intelligence score.

- Lower Strength: Because Tritos is about the size of Mars it is approximately a .6G planet and they are typically weaker Strengthwise compared to humans. Roll a single die six and add 1 if it is 4 or more. If the result is 3 or less the strength is 5. 

- High Stamina: What Triosians lack in Strength they make up for in Stamina. Roll 2 die 6 if the result is less than 5 their stamina is 5.

- Average Perception: Roll 2 die 6 and record the score but no score can go lower than 4.

- Average Dexterity: Roll 2 die 6 and record the score but no score can go lower than 4.

- Arrogance: Tritosians almost always have some sort of chip on their shoulder usually it has something to do with some area of personal knowledge which could be vast do to there longevity most Tritosians change careers every couple of hundred years out of sheer boredom. It's not uncommon to encounter a Tritosian with multiple proficiencies and trades and be a master of the same. Because of this they won't back down from an argument unless there is someone of superior intelligence from them an then only if that person is knowledgable on the topic. While they won't demean someone of lower intellience they will not rest until that person has backed down from the argument.



[back to contents](https://github.com/ikeman32/NewRPG/blob/master/CoreRules/Contents.md) | [Species List](https://github.com/ikeman32/NewRPG/blob/master/Species/Species%20List.md)
